So how do we use OpenID Connect now?
Well, for this,
we first of all,
must add an OpenID Connect provider
to AWS via a service called IAM.
And we learn more about that
in the official AWS documentation.
There, we learn that
for creating a new OpenID Connect provider,
we must go to the IAM service
which we can do by typing IAM here
in that search bar
at the top of the AWS console.
And then we must click on Add provider
under identity providers.
So here, we got identity providers,
we click on Add Provider.
And here, we choose OpenID Connect.
Now, we must enter a provider URL
and an audience.
And that's data we get from GitHub
in their documentation.
That is the provider URL,
which we enter here.
And then here, we get the audience,
this value here,
which we enter here.
Then we click Get thumbprint.
And once we did that,
we can add this provider.
So now, this was added.
That's the first step.
With that added,
GitHub will be able to send requests to AWS
to request permissions from AWS.
And that's the next part therefore.
Now, we must define here on AWS
which kind of permissions should be handed out to GitHub,
so that GitHub can then, for example,
use these permissions in its workflow runs.
For that, we have to assign a role here to our provider.
And for that, we can click on that provider
and then click on assigned role.
And we could use an existing role
if we had one.
But here, we have to create a new one.
And a role in AWS world is simply a document
that describes permissions
that will be added to an entity.
And here, the entity is this identity provider,
so that link to GitHub.
So ultimately, it will be our GitHub workflows
that will get those permissions.
So we create that new role here.
And here, web identity must be selected
and this identity provider must be selected.
We also select the audience,
which we entered before.
And now, we define the permissions of that role.
In AWS world, you do that
by creating so-called policies.
There all is a bunch of prebuilt policies.
And here, to keep things simpler,
we could search for S3
and then add the S3 full access policy.
If you had more AWS experience,
you could add a more fine-grained policy
because this policy actually still includes a lot
of permissions we don't need.
But for this demo,
it's good enough.
So I'll add this Amazon S3 full access policy
to that role we're building.
We can skip the tags step
and click Next.
And now, give this role a name
and I'll name it GitHubDemo1
and create that role.
With that role created here,
it's added to this identity provider.
We can tell that it was added
if we click on that role there.
If you click on Trust relationship,
in the end this year tells us
that it was added for this GitHub identity provider.
So this role can be assumed by GitHub,
so to say,
and GitHub will assume it
when executing our workflows.
So that then allows our workflows
to assume this role.
And this role includes the permissions
to interact with this S3 service.
And that's what we need here.
Now, as a next step,
we could added this Trust relationship,
this trust policy,
and for example,
restrict for which kind of repositories this role
can be assumed.
And that is something you might wanna do
to have even more control over
when those AWS permissions can be assumed.
Here, to keep things simple,
I'll keep the default setting,
but you could be more restrictive
as described here in the official GitHub documentation.
Now, for us,
that's all we have to do on AWS side though.
We added the identity provider
and assigned this role.
Now, we have to tweak our GitHub Actions workflow here
because our custom action,
in my case here, deploy-s3-docker,
needs access to AWS.
And at the moment,
we're granting that access
by setting these environment variables.
Well, we're not going to do this anymore.
Instead, what we'll do
is we'll add a new step,
which I'll name get AWS permissions
which will get us the permissions
for this workflow execution
or for this job execution here
to be precise before performing the action
that needs the permissions.
And we'll do that by using another action,
an action that's also mentioned
in the official GitHub documentation.
It's this aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials action,
which is an action published by AWS,
a GitHub action published by AWS.
This is the action which we'll use here
in this step in our workflow,
in this job before deploying QS3.
And if we stroll down further
in the GitHub documentation,
we learned that we now also must add some permissions
to our job.
We must add these permissions
because by default,
no matter which general permission default settings we have,
the ID token permission is always disabled.
It's not set.
By default, our workflow is not able
to get this OpenID Connect token
which is needed here to talk to AWS.
And we must grant access to that token
so that this OpenID Connection,
you could say, can be used.
Therefore, we must add permissions
to just deploy job
and add the ID token permission
and set that to write.
Now, we won't change the token here,
but still, write permissions are needed
to interact with that token correctly.
As you see here in the official GitHub documentation,
can be a bit confusing,
but it must be write.
I will also set contents to read
because you learned before
that if you set one permission
and only one permission,
all our permissions are disabled by default.
Now, since I still check out my code here though,
I must add contents read
so that the GitHub token for this job
is allowed to get the code from my repository.
So that this checkout action works correctly.
Therefore, contents read must be added here.
This will also grant the necessary permissions
to download our artifact.
Now, with those permissions added back here
to this step for getting the AWS credentials
because here, we must add some inputs to this action.
To be precise, we must add the role dash-to-assume.
Input.
As we also learn in the official documentation
of this configure AWS credentials action.
Here, we learn that this is one input
that must be added.
And the role I do wanna assume here is that role
which we added a couple of minutes ago here.
We need this ARN,
this identifier of that role here,
and we use that as a value
for this role to assume key.
We all must add the AWS Region key.
And in our case, that's us-east-1.
That's where we all interact
with the S3 bucket.
I also must added my input here
for my custom action
because I now have a different name for my bucket.
There, I see all my buckets,
and this is the name of the bucket
that must be used now.
So here, that's what I'll use here.
And with that all,
we now edited this workflow and this job
such that we no longer need any AWS access keys as secrets.
But that we instead dynamically request permissions attached
to a specific AWS role,
which are required for this job to execute successfully
with help of that OpenID Connection
which we established earlier.
With that, we can create a new commit:
"use openid connect"
and push this to see
whether it all works as intended.
Actually, here, it failed
because I forgot to add the version number
to this action here.
That should be at v1.
At the point of time,
I'm recording this.
So here, I'll add a new commit
and push this again.
Now, this workflow starts.
Let's see whether it finishes successfully.
And this is looking good.
Looks like it was deployed.
If we take a look at this bucket,
we also see that all the files are there
and were indeed uploaded successfully this time
without any access key secrets
or environment variables being stored here.
But instead, by getting those permissions dynamically
with this OpenID Connect approach
which is recommended over using those access keys
for the reasons mentioned before.